above,up,over.じょう.Of course when you find a toe above the ground, you want to know where the toe came from. When you examine it, you see a name written on there. This toe belongs to the local clumsy farmhand, Jourm (じょう).
below,down,under,beneath.か,げ.You keep digging for the toe below the ground, and instead of hitting a toe you hit something hard and metallic. You keep digging and digging around it, but it's huge. Turns out, you found yourself a car (か). Keep digging until you unearth the car. Inside, you find the toe you were looking for.
big,large.たい,だい. There's this big guy (that's how you remember the radical, remember?), and he's wearing a huge Tie Dye (たい, だい) shirt. Because he's so huge, the tie dye shirt is also super huge. Everything about him is pretty big, but the tie dye stands out more than anything.
construction,industry.こう,く. For kanji that use the こう (there are a lot of them!) we will use the character こういち every time. He's one of the people who started this website, so we'll do our best in the mnemonics to embarrass him as much as possible. Anyways, remember that whenever you see こう, think こういち. You see some construction in front of you. There, standing shirtless (only a suspender and hard hat) is (こういち), looking back at you.
eight,8.はち.After you count and smell all eight of your fins, it's time to put them away. You open a large hatch (はち) and put them in. This is where you keep your fins, always putting in eight at a time because that's what the boss wants.
enter.にゅう.Turns out, after you enter the teepee (you'll remember that the radical is a teepee with a big entrance to it), you're given a new (にゅう) one! Now you have two teepees!
mountain.さん.Think about mountains talking to each other, calling each other by their names and adding the Japanese name-ender san (さん) to each of their names. "Hello, Everest-san." "Oh hi, Fuji-san."
MOUTH.こう,く.For kanji with こう readings (there are a lot of them!) we will use the character こういち every time. He's one of the people who started this website, so we'll do our best in the mnemonics to embarrass him as much as possible. Anyways, remember that whenever you see こう, think こういち. Everyone agrees, (こういち)'s mouth is his best feature. You stare at it lovingly as he whispers sweet kanji readings to you.
Nine,9.く,きゅう.When you were nine your favorite foods were cookies (く) and cucumbers (きゅう). Yum yum!
one,1.いち,いつ.As you're sitting there next to One, holding him up, you start feeling a weird sensation all over your skin. From the wound comes a fine powder (obviously coming from the special bullet used to kill One) that causes the person it touches to get extremely itchy (いち).
Person.にん,じん.Only one person at Nintendo (にん) complained about the new jeans (じん) policy, and that person was you.
Power.りょく,りき.Who has the most power of anyone? It's the Power Rangers. They are battling their arch enemy Ricky (りき). They defeat him and lock (りょく) him up, so that he can't hurt anyone ever again.
River.かわ.(IT IS ONYOMI!)You're standing next to a river that's actually used as a car wash (かわ).
Seven,7.しち.Seven percent is all she got on her test after she cheated (しち) on it.
Ten,10.じゅう.This cross in particular has ten jewels (じゅう) on it. Two on each arm and two in the middle. That's ten jewels!
Three,3.さん.Three is the number of chances you get with Santa-san (さん). He has a list, and when you get to three "naughty things" lines, that's it. You're on Santa-san's three strikes and you're out list.
Two,2.に.Think of all the things you have Two of. What is the most important? Some would say eyes, some would say ears. I would say the knee (に) because if you didn't have them, it'd be really hard to go up stairs.
Woman,female.じょ.When you think of a woman, think of Jo-Anne (じょ), though she usually goes by just "Jo."
