Bamboo.たけ.(KUNYOMI READING) There's a little bamboo shrub sitting there, holding onto a lollipop. Because you're bigger than the bamboo shrub, you just take (たけ) it from the bamboo, causing it to cry. Of course, focus on the absurdity of a bamboo shrub that can cry and eat a lollipop. Also, think about how mean you are to take the lollipop away from a defenseless bamboo shrub in the first place!
Car.しゃ.When we need to remember the reading しゃ, we use "shaman". There's a car. It's the nicest car you've ever seen. Exquisite, beautiful. Wouldn't you be surprised to learn it belongs to a shaman (しゃ)? Well it does. This shaman charges a premium for his shaman services so he can afford fancy cars like this. The more fantastic you make this car, the better. Also, feel the surprise of a shaman getting out of this car. What a cool dude that shaman is.
Center,CENTRE.おう.This is the center of the 王's (おう) head so you have to be extra careful not to look anywhere else. The 王 will definitely cut off your normal-sized head if he sees you looking all over his big head and not at the center.
Copy.しゃ.To remember the reading しゃ, we use the word "shaman". You finally decide on how you're going to copy him. You hire a shaman (しゃ) and have the shaman perform a sacred shaman cloning ritual. The shaman runs around for a bit, doing ridiculous things. Imagine it dancing about and mumbling shamanic chants as the beggar is copied.
Doing,do.し.He was doing things with sheep (し). He is the leader of the sheep clan, and he was able to do more with sheep than anyone else. That's why he's the leader. Picture the leader samurai doing lots of sheep things. He's shearing sheep. He's feeding sheep. He's doing everything you could possibly do, because he's the sheep samurai.
Ear,Ears.みみ.(KUNYOMI READING) Put your hand to your ear and sing... "Mimimimimimiiiii!" (みみ) and listen to your tone with your ear. This is sort of a stereotypical singer sort of image. Make sure you concentrate a lot when you're listening to your mimimimiiii tone. In fact, why don't you do it out loud right now - make a little fool of yourself. It's fun, and it'll help you to remember!
Early,FAST,QUICK.そう.To remember the そう reading we use the word "soul." When you're forced to get up fast and early you can feel it in your soul (そう). You're so tired and it's so early, your soul cries out, "Please don't make me go this fast this early. I'm gonna leave your body if you keep this up!" But you get your soul up early and head to the church fast anyway, because you're doing all of this for your soul in the first place!
Energy,SPIRIT.き,け.As you reach inside the energy spirit, you feel something hard inside. It's a large key (き) that gives you access to another treasure. You take the key and open another treasure that's nearby. Open it up and see what's inside. Imagine something spectacular.
Flat,PEACE.へい,ひょう,びょう.Being flat isn't enough, so you cover the whole thing in hay (へい). Hay absorbs water, so you add a flat layer of it. Imagine carefully laying a flat layer of hay on top of your flat horns. You feel really at peace and... you're tired now. You decided to lie on top of the hay and take a nap while you wait for your horns to dry.
Flower.はな.(KUNYOMI) The leader can't stop planting flowers though. He's going crazy. Maybe it's the pollen? He comes up to someone named Hannah (はな) and starts planting flowers in her face, probably killing her in the process. Do you know anyone named Hannah? Any famous people, perhaps? Try to come up with someone you know of named Hannah that you can imagine to be in this mnemonic, to help you remember it better.
Foot,LEG,SUFFICIENT.そく.What do you wear on your foot? You wear a sock (そく). Just think about your bare feet. Think about them too much. Feel how cold it is on your feet. Now, put on a sock to make it feel better. Ahhh, so nice!
Hit.だ.As you hit one chump after another, suddenly your dad (だ) comes marching out of your house. Uh oh. Dad caught you hitting, which, honestly, isn't a very nice thing to do, so he has every right to stop you. Now imagine your dad saying, "Don't do a hit!" over and over at you. "I'm sorry dad! But the streets were calling me!"
Hundred.ひゃく.You fly closer, counting all one hundred leaves when you hear a strange sound. You take off your space helmet and hear, "GUH HYUCK (ひゃく)!" You know that laugh... it's Goofy! On top of the hundredth leaf is Goofy laughing and waving around. He must have built this leaf tower to get your attention. Imagine hearing Goofy guh-hyuck over and over after you save him from being stranded on the sun. How would you feel being stuck in a cramped ship with laughing Goofy and his hundred leaves? Oh, you thought he would leave those behind? Nope, they saved him so you have to take them back too. Happy travels!
Ice.こおり.(KUNYOMI)When you think of ice, I want you to think of someone frozen with ice. Do you know anyone named Corey (こおり)? Anyone famous named Corey, perhaps Corey Feldman? Imagine this Corey person frozen solid with ice. How did this happen? Was it your fault? Imagine the situation that would get Corey frozen like this.
Insect,BUG.むし.(KUNYOMI) It's an insect! Get it! You squish it with your foot - what sound does it make? A mush (むし) sound. Imagine little words that say "mush" flying out from under your foot as you mush the poor thing. What does a "mush" sound sound like? You'll have to come up with something unique to yourself, and focus on it to remember this reading.
Letter,CHARACTER,SYMBOL.じ.The character that is being shown is "J," which stands for Jesus (じ). The kid wants everyone to see this letter and symbol. Imagine the child holding up the letter yelling at everyone who passes that the "J" stands for "Jesus." And yes, this kid just loves the Big Lebowski.
Man.だん,なん.A man can power an entire rice paddy until dawn (だん). Once dawn comes they need a little break, so they nap. But once dawn is over, they're back at it again! Picture the man watching as the first light of dawn tints the color of the sky, turning it pink and orange. He stops working, lies down, and falls asleep.
Master,MAIN.しゅ.Do you remember back to the radical mnemonic, where the master is floating a water drop above his head? Imagine back to there. Once you do, the most amazing thing happens. The master sends the drop of water into a chute (しゅ) and it goes careening through an intricate series of them. Picture this master of water controlling the droplet as it flies around inside these chutes, like he's solving a difficult puzzle with it. Astounding!
Name,FAMOUS.めい,みょう.So, when does “Evening Mouth” appear? Turns out, “Evening Mouth” only comes out to talk in May (めい). You know this because it’s just starting to be spring, and when you look around (you’re watching “Evening Mouth” again) you see some spring flowers come up. You know what they say. April showers bring May Flowers. What do May Flowers bring? They bring “Evening Mouth,” baby.
Not.ふ,ぶ.To remember ふ we'll use the word "fool." Think of those jokes, where someone says something, then ends with a loud "NOTTTT!" Someone is doing that to you, over and over. What is that person? That person is a fool (ふ). Be sure to feel irritated at that person. Think in your head as they're telling these dumb "not" jokes how much of a fool they are... and how much of a fool you are for sitting here and listening to them.
Number.ごう."You want to know the number to the hatch?" yells an old voice from inside. You say "yes," and the voice gives you the numbers and you're in! You go down into the prison, where there is one prisoner: Grandpa Koichi (ごういち). Note: For ごう reading mnemonics, we use ごういち (grandpa Koichi) because こういち is used for the こう reading. こう becomes ごう becomes "grandpa ごういち." ごういち keeps saying numbers as you free him from the prison. Just one after another. Numbers numbers numbers. Hopefully old man ごういち isn't crazy.
Other.た.To remember the reading た, we use the word "Taco". Then there's the others of the others. These are the taco (た) worshipers. They're really strange. Just imagine the "others" shaking their heads at these taco worshipers. Seriously, what the heck?
Past.きょ,こ.To remember the reading きょ, we'll use "Little Kyoto." This will differentiate きょ from きょう, which is regular-sized Kyoto. Get it? You decide to bury all this private dirt from your past in Little Kyoto (きょ). That stuff is from when you were just a little 子 (こ) and you don't like to think about it. Imagine physically, literally burying your past 子 self. If you hide it in Little Kyoto, no one will ever be able to dig it up.
Plate,DISH.さら.(KUNYOMI) The person washing all the dishes was named Sarah (さら). She was named that because of her large head, which was shaped like Sarah Jessica Parker’s head (very big). Imagine someone with a huge head, washing dishes. When I say huge, I mean huge. She turns towards you with her big head and says “Hi, I’m Sarah” and you see her name tag, which also says Sarah. She is Sarah, the dish washer. The plates she holds up next to her head pale in comparison, even though they're the biggest pieces.
Previous,AHEAD,PAST,FORMER.せん.As you sit there, pretending you're in a previous time you see a centaur (せん)! That's right! Centaurs are from wayyyy in the past. Centaurs were definitely real in the past. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. They're just afraid of the truth.
Red.あか.(KUNYOMI) Think of Fozzie Bear. He says "Wakka wakka wakka" a lot. Now, think of an evil, red (and I mean totally red) Fozzie Bear. He drops the "w" and just says "Aka Aka Aka," because he's totally evil. You'll have to think of him as really, really red, though. Like, a glowing, searing kind of red. Red enough for you to associate red with this evil Fozzie Bear. If you do, then you'll be good to go (as long as you know his catch phrase as well).
Rest.きゅう.As he rests, he suddenly gets hungry and pulls a cucumber (きゅう) off the tree and bites into it. A good rest isn't complete without some crunchy tree cucumbers. Don't email me saying cucumbers don't grow on trees. Cucumber trees exist. Look them up and then rest easy knowing I'd never lie to you.
Say Humbly,SAY,HUMBLY SAY.もう.(KUNYOMI) When you think of saying humble things, think of the humblest man in the world. His name is Moe (もう). Imagine this character in your head. If it helps, you can take a Moe you already know of (Simpsons, perhaps?) and pretend he's extremely humble - ridiculously so. Just remember to make it crazy so you can remember it better.
See.み.(KUNYOMI) You see something. It's walking towards you, but you need to see better. When the person comes close, you realize "That person is me (み)!" The struggling to see bit is pretty important - make sure that you slowly see a little better and better as the person comes closer, but it's difficult the whole time (struggles are good for memory). Then, it starts to become more and more clear, and you start saying "that can't be me. No way it's me..." When the person comes up to you (the person, being you) you learn about parallel universes and other fabulous things. Still, the whole time you can't stop thinking about how "this person looks just like me... no, this person is me!"
Shellfish,Shell.かい.(KUNYOMI) To get some shellfish, all you have to do is hop in your kayak (かい) and get some. Shellfish live in the water. Imagine rowing your kayak out into the ocean to collect shellfish. Imagine the color and shape of the kayak. Feel the spray of the salt water and the taste of some fresh shellfish, right out of the ocean.
Stone.せき.You throw a stone through a window... and, now you can see something very sexy (せき). Whoops, maybe you shouldn't throw stones through windows or you'll see people's sexy times.
Substitute,REPLACE,PERIOD,AGE.だい,たい.The substitute leader is wearing the wrong color clothes, so you have to dye (だい) them, like they did in the olden ages. Now you're out back with the original leader and the substitute leader, trying to dye the color of this stupid shirt to match that one.
Thanks,ETIQUETTE.れい.So what did you receive as a thanks? You open it up, and there's a ray (れい) gun inside! Thanks for the new ray gun, Totoro!
Thread.いと.(KUNYOMI) You have some thread... what's the first thing you do with it? You take it and put it in your mouth, and start sucking it down like spaghetti. You have decided to eat (いと) the thread. Think about how it tastes. Think about how it feels in your throat. Let it get caught on your teeth and around your tongue. It's a weird feeling having thread in your mouth, and you want to use that weird feeling to remember you're going to eat it.
Town.ちょう.You go to visit this nice little town. But then, there she is... Every time you walk down the street, the street-woman Mrs. Chou (ちょう) arrives to ruin your day. Remember imagining Mrs. Chou in great detail in level 2? Time for some of that work to come to fruition. Imagine Mrs. Chou walking down the street of the town towards you, ready to make your day bad. She breaks things as she walks towards you, then knocks you down for walking around in her town. She says, "Wherever there's a street, you'll find Mrs. Chou." Then spits on your back as she walks away.
Treasure.ほう.All of this treasure is kept in the king's home (ほう). He can't let other people see how much treasure he has, or they'll get mad, or worse(!) ask him to share some with his people. Yuck. The treasure stays at home. Picture his home from the outside. It looks like a normal, small castle. But then you walk in and it's a treasure trove of... well, treasure!
Village.むら.(KUNYOMI) They take all the wood back to where they're building their village and once they construct the village center they paint a mural (むら) on the side of it. The mural is of the forest where they got the tree from so they remember the building's origins. Look at the mural on the side of this newly constructed village center. So many trees! Visualize the whole process as the tree becomes a building as you gaze and reflect on the message of the mural. 
World,GENERATION.せい,せ.It's your job to protect the world and every generation with your special saber (せい). It was given to you to uphold correctness, and you'll pass it on to the next generation when it's time. Then they'll watch out for the world when you're gone. Hold the saber up high and pledge to protect the world for all of the generations to come! Then swish it around and make buzzing sounds with your mouth.
Year.ねん.It is New Years, though, so when you bring the dead cow back home, it’s time to celebrate. Using the cow’s organs and bones, you and your siblings construct a nendoroid (ねん). Nendoroids are Japanese toys - little plastic figurines (Google it if need be). You make a little cow nendoroid holding a gun. How cute. How funny that you use dead cow parts to make a miniature cow holding a gun much like the one you murdered earlier. Imagine yourself playing with this nendoroid as you think about how weird it was to make a cow nendoroid out of a dead cow.