Adult,MATURE.おとな."I'm an adult, which means I have adult responsibilities. Oh, Toner (おとな)? I need some of that for my terrible printer..." ... now feel so sad you have such a terrible printer that runs out of toner every day. Ohhhh Toner!
Alone,ONE PERSON,1 person.ひとり.The reading for this vocab doesn't follow any rules you learned previously. It's an exception, which means you have to learn the reading separately too. Spend a few moments trying to remember this word, look away for 10 seconds, and then try to recall its reading. Could you do it? Try again, this time in thirty seconds. Did you do it again? Okay, go ahead and move on. You may know it now, though you'll need to recall it again in the next 5-10 minutes if you want to remember it for good.Alternatively, if you know the reading for the vocab word 一つ (in the same level as this word), you can know that it uses the same reading!
Artificial,MAN MADE,HUMAN MADE.じんこう.This is a jukugo word that uses the on'yomi readings of the kanji. You should be able to read this on your own.
big,LARGE.おおきい.What do you do when you see something really, really big? You say おお because you can't believe your eyes. Imagine something really large and say おお out loud to help seal the memory in that brain of yours.
Down,BELOW,UNDER,BENEATH.した.What's below you? What's below your foot? Oh no. The worst thing possible: It's した.
Eight,8.はち.When a vocab is a single kanji and all alone like this, it's usually going to use the kun'yomi. But, because this is a number (exception) it uses the on'yomi instead, meaning you already know the reading from when you learned the kanji!
Eight Things,8 things.やっつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion).So what eight things do you have? You have eight yachts (やっつ). Go ahead and count them. They're beautiful. Also, be sure not to be confused by this particular reading mnemonic. It includes the つ, even though the つ is outside the reading you need to learn (just makes things easier for you overall). Since you can see the つ outside, it shouldn't be too difficult for you.
Entrance.いりぐち.The kanji 入 has り attached to it as okurigana (hiragana that comes after a kanji), so you can bet that 入り will use a kun'yomi reading for the kanji. You haven't learned this reading yet, so here's a mnemonic to help you: The entrance you're going through is really eerie (いり). It has cobwebs and creepy figures carved into it, and it just gives you a really eerie feeling.Since 入り uses the kun'yomi, you can guess that 口 will follow suit. You learned this reading with the vocabulary, but the く in くち changes to ぐ due to something called rendaku. Think of it as an eerie entrance into the Gucci (ぐち) store.
Great,CONSIDERABLE,IMPORTANT,BIG DEAL.たいした.The reading for the 大 part is actually the on'yomi reading you learned when learning its kanji. So, as long as you remember that (and remember to use that reading), you can read this word as well. 大した = たいした.
Mountain.やま.When a vocab is a single kanji all alone with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it's usually going to be the kun'yomi reading, which you didn't learn when you learned the kanji. To remember this word's reading we'll use a mnemonic.What are you doing going up into the mountains? You're hunting for yams (やま). Go ahead, imagine yourself doing just that, climbing up the mountain (it's hard work!) and then digging in the ground with your hands, then pulling up that sweet, delicious yam! Mmm!
Mouth.くち.When a vocab is made up of a single kanji with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it's generally going to use the kun'yomi reading, which you did not learn from learning the kanji. To remember this word, you should use a mnemonic. With your mouth, make a "kuchi kuchi kou" (くち) sound. Go ahead, make it. Focus on your mouth and try to imagine each shape it makes while zooming in on it. You're talking to a baby, which is why you're making all these ridiculous noises. Also, instead of "coo" at the end, you're saying "kou," because that's the reading of the kanji (こう).くちくちこう！くちくちこう！ Sounds like something from Arrested Development, actually.
Mt Fuji,MOUNT FUJI,fuji mt,fuji mountain,mountain fuji.ふじさん.Normally ふじ would be in kanji, but I wanted you to see this kanji use in action since it's more useful than just being used on Mount Fuji. This is treated like a jukugo word (combo kanji word). In the case of jukugo, usually the on'yomi reading is used, meaning you just have to remember the on'yomi reading of 山. Luckily, you learned this when you were learning the kanji, so you should already know it!
Nine,9.きゅう.When a vocab is made up of a single kanji with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji), it usually uses the kun'yomi reading. Numbers are the exception, as you might already know. When they're alone with no okurigana they're the on'yomi reading, which you should already know from learning the kanji that makes up this word.
Nine Things,9 things.ここのつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion).What thing do you have nine of? The nine things that you have are nine coconuts (ここの). Imagine yourself juggling nine coconuts in the air. Try counting them while you're doing this, arriving at nine things.
One,1.いち.When a vocab word is all alone and has no okurigana (hiragana attached to kanji) connected to it, it usually uses the kun'yomi reading. Numbers are an exception, however. When a number is all alone, with no kanji or okurigana, it is going to be the on'yomi reading, which you learned with the kanji. Just remember this exception for alone numbers and you'll be able to read future number-related vocab to come.
One Thing,1 thing.ひとつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion). So, you have one thing. What one thing do you have? You have one of He-Man's Toes, aka a single He-Toe (ひと). So what's the thing you have only one of? You have one He-Toe. Imagine He-Man walking around with one missing toe, trying to find you so he can get it back. At least you'll be able to run faster than him now.
Person.ひと.When a vocab is a single kanji with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji), it usually uses the kun'yomi reading. Since you don't know the kun'yomi reading for this kanji yet, let's use a mnemonic to learn it. What does a person hate more than anything? They hate extreme heat (ひと). You can always put on more clothes to stay warm, but when the heat gets too high, you can only take off so much.
Please Give Me,PLEASE.ください.The reading for this word is an exceptional reading. You just have to be able to recall the くだ part, though (since さい is already there in the form of the hiragana). So, think about why you have to be polite to this misbehaving kid. Turns out, if you don't, he has the power to initiate a Coup d'état against you and your family, who runs the government. Just imagine yourself thinking over and over "Okay... I have to be nice to this kid. If I don't... he'll initiate a Coup d'état... and that would ruin my family..." You're walking on thin ice, here.
Population.じんこう.Both kanji in this jukugo (combo kanji) use the on'yomi readings that you've already learned! So just make sure you know those and you'll be able to read this too.
Power,STRENGTH,ABILITY.ちから.When a vocab word is a single kanji all alone with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji), it usually uses the kun'yomi reading. You didn't learn the kun'yomi reading with the kanji, so for this vocab word, we'll use a mnemonic. The most powerful man in the world. All his power came from his cheek (ちから). Imagine him blowing up his cheek like a giant balloon, then unleashing his power on you. Thwap thwap thwap thwap.
River.かわ.You're in luck - the reading you learned with the kanji is the same as the one you have to learn for this vocab!
Seven,7.なな,しち.Most single-kanji all-alone vocab words like this use the kun'yomi reading. Numbers are an exception to this rule. That being said, four and seven are exceptions to this exception to the rule (because the on'yomi readings sound too much like the word for "death"). You should learn both readings for this word, though we're going to go with なな for the main one here. You can remember that because you had seven nanas after you.
Seven Things,7 things.ななつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion).What thing do you have seven of? The seven things that you have are seven Nanas (なな). These are your grandmas, cloned. Just think, "It's lucky to have seven nanas. They can all cook my favorite foods for me!"
Size.おおきさ.When a vocab has okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it is probably going to be the kun'yomi reading. Since you learned the on'yomi reading with the kanji 大, we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember this word.When you saw the size of (pick something surprising), you said "おお *#$@!" Really imagine something surprising. Say the おお part out loud, as well. Think about the size of whatever you're looking at, too, and how big it is.
Ten,10.じゅう.When a vocab is alone and consists of a single kanji like this, usually it uses the kun'yomi reading for the kanji. But, numbers are an exception and they use the on'yomi reading (which you learned when you learned the kanji). That means you know that this word's reading is じゅう already.
Three,3.さん.When a vocab is alone like this with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it usually uses its kun'yomi reading. Numbers are an exception, though, and use the on'yomi reading. You learned the on'yomi reading when you learned this kanji, so you already know that the reading for this vocab is さん.
Three People,3 people,three persons,3 persons.さんにん.This jukugo (combo kanji) word uses the on'yomi readings that you learned when you learned the kanji. That means you should know the reading as long as you know the kanji.
Three Things,3 things.みっつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion). What thing do you have three of? The three things that you have are actually three versions of yourself. "Who is the real one?" you ask yourself. "It's me!" "Wait, no, it's me!" Just remember that there are three of you, and they're all saying "me me me me me" to try and prove that they're the real you.
To Enter.はいる.When a vocab is a single kanji with okurigana, chances are it's going to be the kun'yomi reading, which you don't usually learn in the kanji (you usually learn the on'yomi reading). So, let's learn the kun'yomi reading for this word using its meaning. When you enter the room, what do you do? You say "Hi" (はい) to everyone to the point of absurdity. "Hi there. Oh hi Frank. Oh hi there Susan. Oh hi there lamp."
To Lift Something,to lift,lift,TO RAISE SOMETHING,TO INCREASE SOMETHING,to raise,raise,to increase,increase.あげる.Since this word has okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) you know that it's probably going to use the kun'yomi reading, which you didn't learn with the kanji. Here's a mnemonic to help you: You want to lift something, and that something is aardvark (あ) above your head. Why? Because even though aardvarks have long tongues, they can't reach the ants in the trees. But when you raise this aardvark it can get at those yummy ants!
To Lower Something,TO HANG SOMETHING,to hang,hang,to lower,lower.さげる.Since this word has okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) you know that it's probably going to be the kun'yomi reading, which you didn't learn with the kanji. Here's a mnemonic to help you: You want to lower something. In this case, it's a tree, so you need a saw (さ). Lower the tree to the ground gently while you slowly saw it down!
Two,2.に.When a vocab word is a single kanji with no okurigana, it usually uses the kun'yomi reading. Numbers are an exception to this. Numbers use the on'yomi reading, which you've already learned by learning the kanji's reading! How nice!
Two People,2 people,two persons,2 persons.ふたり.The reading for this word is quite strange. If you know 二つ's reading, you can use that to remember the 二 part (ふた). But, the り that is the 人 is a total exception, something you won't see too often (though you may have seen it in 一人). If you can use the reading of 一人 (aka if you've learned it already) then definitely use that. If not, do your best to remember the reading on your own. It's a strange one that doesn't connect to much else.
Two Things,2 things.ふたつ.Since all of the "number of things" words all follow the same pattern (number plus つ), you really just have to remember the part before the つ (and then remember that the つ is in all of these). All of the readings are the kun'yomi reading, which means we'll have to use a mnemonic to remember them (you know the on'yomi reading of the kanji portion).So what thing do you have two of? The two things that you have consist of one foot and another foot (ふた). Remember from the on'yomi how you had two knees (for the reading に)? Now look further down your leg at one foot then over to the other foot. Two foot!
Up,ABOVE,OVER.うえ.When a vocab word is a single kanji and doesn't have okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it usually will use the kun'yomi. Since you learned the on'yomi reading of the kanji, we'll need to use a mnemonic to learn the reading of this vocabulary word. Above you is a huge weight. You're holding it up and struggling (it's heavy!). You look up and try to crane your neck to see how much it weighs (うえ), but you can't see the numbers on the side of it. How long can you hold it above your head like this?
With All One's Strength,FULL POWER,AS HARD AS ONE CAN.ちからいっぱい.力 uses the same reading as you learned with the vocabulary. That's because this is basically two separate words stuck together.
Woman,female.おんな.When a word is a single kanji with no okurigana (hiragana attached to the kanji) it tends to use a kun'yomi reading. You didn't learn the kun'yomi reading when you learned the kanji itself, so let's use a mnemonic to remember the vocab word. There's a woman in front of you. Who is she? She's the woman who lives on Ninth (おんな) Street!
