Another Person,OTHER PEOPLE,STRANGER.たにん.When you have an other person, you really have another person.
As Soon As,JUST AFTER,IMMEDIATELY AFTER,PROMPTLY,QUICKLY.そうそう,はやばや.Essentially you have the kanji 早 twice, because 々 is just a repeater kanji. When you have something early twice, it obviously has some kind of urgency to it. You'll need to take an action as soon as you finish whatever it is you're doing there. The reading is just the on'yomi readings (which you learned with the kanji) twice in a row.
Atmosphere.たいき.If there is a big energy it's going to fill up the atmosphere! Think about big energies you feel in the atmosphere: thunderstorms, tornadoes, the aurora borealis. Just remember, this is the atmosphere in the sky, not the atmosphere in a fancy restaurant.
Baby.あかちゃん.ちゃん is the honorific you put on a child's name. So, who is this mysterious child you're calling red? When a baby is born, what color are they? You got it, they're all red. And, because you want to be nice and cute you add ちゃん to that. That's why あかちゃん is a baby. If you know the reading of the kanji 赤 you should know the reading of this too.
Bamboo.たけ.Since this word is made up of a single kanji, it should use the kun'yomi reading which is also the reading you associated with the kanji, earlier.
Bamboo Shoot,BAMBOO SPROUT.たけのこ.If you know the readings of the kanji for 竹 and the vocabulary for 子 you should be able to read this word as well.
Bold Letter,BOLD, BOLD CHARACTER, BOLD TEXT, BOLDFACE.ふとじ.The reading for this one is a bit odd. The 太 uses the ふと from ふとい (kun'yomi) and the 字 is just the normal on'yomi reading for "letter." You have to remember this weird mismatched reading pair on your own, I'm afraid. Perhaps if you think about how fat letters don't really fit with the rest of the text, kind of like how the readings of both kanji also don't fit in it will help?
Boy,YOUNG BOY, JUVENILE, YOUTH.しょうねん.Someone of few years is someone who's young. But, back in the day the Japanese and Chinese tended to favor the boys, so this one means boy, usually a young boy. Sorry girls! Use your irritation at this kanji to remember it better.
Bug,insect.むし.Since this word is made up of a single kanji, it should use the kun'yomi reading, which is also the reading you learned when you learned this kanji!
By The End Of The Year,BEFORE THE END OF THIS YEAR, WITHIN THE YEAR.ねんない.Inside the year means by the end of the year. In other words, before the end of this year, or within the year.
Calf,baby cow.こうし.Since you should know the readings of the words 子 and 牛 from the previous level, you should be able to read this word too even though it's using the kun'yomi readings for the kanji.
Calm,COOL, ALL RIGHT, OKAY.へいき.You have a flat energy. What kind of energy would be a flat one? Probably a cool or calm one. You'd also tell people about this flat energy by saying you are all right or just okay.
Car.くるま.Since this word is made up of a single kanji, it should use the kun'yomi reading. When learning the kanji, you didn't learn that reading, so here's a mnemonic to help you with this word: You visit your mom who lives inside of a car. It's sad, and you feel bad. The first thing that pops out of your mouth is: "Cool Room, Ma (くるま) because you don't know what else to say about your ma's living situation. Be sure to sort of cut off the last letters of the first two words... something like "coo' roo' ma!" Sad thing is, there is only one room in this car your mom calls home.
Center,CENTRAL, CENTRE.ちゅうおう.The middle of the central... that is really, really in the center if you ask me (and is very central as well). This is one of those "overdid it on the meaning" words.
Character,KANJI CHARACTER, LETTER, SYMBOL.じ.You only learned one reading for the kanji that makes up this word, and it's the same as the reading for this word (of course). That means you should already know the reading.
Ear,Ears.みみ.Since this word is made up of a single kanji, it should use the kun'yomi reading which is the reading you learned with the kanji. So you should be able to read this word already.